% Course Policies
% U.S. Religion in the 19th Century: A Digital History Seminar

### Assignments

I may change due dates or assignments. I will always give you plenty of
notice of changes, which will always be intended for your benefit.

Students must satisfactorily complete all assignments (including
participation assignments) in order to pass this course.

### Academic integrity

You are expected to know and follow Brandeis University's policies on 
academic integrity <<http://www.brandeis.edu/studentlife/sdc/ai>\>.

### Course website and privacy

You will have to make an account on the course website for your online
writing assignments. You may use either your real name or a *nom de
plume* (which I will keep confidential). You retain the
copyright to everything that you have written.

### Handing in papers

For any written assignments, attach a cover sheet with your name, your 
e-mail address, the date, and the course name. This cover sheet does not 
count towards the required pages for each assignment. No identifying 
information, such as your name, should be on the main pages of the 
assignment. I ask for a cover sheet so that I can grade impartially: 
this is to your advantage. Staple all pages together.

You must turn in all assignments both in paper and electronically. You
should hand in the paper copy of each assignment at the start of class.
You should turn in the electronic copy to the LATTE drop box before the
start of class. Please submit only PDFs. You should title your filename
something like `Lastname-Firstname.lens-essay.pdf`.

### Late work

I am willing to grant extensions for cause, but you must request an
extension well in advance of the assignment's due date. For every day or
part of a day that an assignment is late, I will deduct one letter
grade.

### Participation and attendance

Your attendance is expected every day without exception. We will be
working closely in community, so I hope you will develop a good working
relationship with everyone in the class. You should complete readings
and assignments before class each day, and you are expected to actively
participate by listening, questioning, and speaking. 

If you must be absent, I request that you notify me by e-mail in advance
of class meeting. Even if you are absent, you must turn in assignments
before the time when our class meets.

After the first two absences from class, the relevant portion of your 
grade for the class will be lowered for each absence.

### Communications

I am always glad to meet with you in person. You can make an appointment
for office hours using the Google Calendar link on the course website.
If none of those times fit your schedule, we can find another time that
does. From time to time I may offer online office hours in the evening.

For all other communications I prefer e-mail <<lmullen@brandeis.edu>\>.
I will reply to your messages within 24 hours (but never on a
Sunday). I will send official course communications to your Brandeis
e-mail address, which you should check regularly.

I will discuss grades only in person.

### Electronic devices

Because this is a digital history class you should feel free to bring 
laptops and other devices to work on the project. During class 
discussions of texts, however, there will be little need for the use of 
laptops. Except for extraordinary circumstances, I can't see any reason 
why you would need to use a cell phone in class, so please stow all 
phones before class begins.

### Disabilities

If you are a student with a documented disability on record at Brandeis
University and wish to have a reasonable accommodation made for you in
this class, please speak with me immediately.

## Acknowledgments and license

This syllabus borrows ideas from other digital history classes taught by 
Jeremy Boggs, Mills Kelly, Tona Hangen, and especially Jeff McClurken.

This syllabus and all assignments are copyrighted &copy; 2013 Lincoln 
Mullen and licensed CC-BY 3.0 
<<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/us/>\>. You are free to use 
or modify this syllabus for any purpose, provided that you attribute it 
to the author, preferably at the course website listed above.
