% Nineteenth-Century American Religion: A Digital History Seminar
% Lincoln A. Mullen

In 1784 Medfield author Hannah Adams published the book that would make
her famous, *An Alphabetical Compendium of the Various Sects Which Have
Appeared from the Beginning of the Christian Era to the Present Day*.
Adams, who was the first American woman to earn her livelihood with her
pen, had compiled a painstaking guide to world religions, which she
augmented in the four American and two British editions published by
1817. In writing the work, Adams grappled with a problem. On the one
hand, she wished to counter the practice of other authors who gave "the
most unfavorable descriptions of the denominations that they disliked."
But on the other hand, as she "abridge[d] what appeared to me the most
plausible arguments for every denomination," she "suffered extremely
from mental indecision, while perusing the various and contradictory
arguments adduced ... in defence of their respective religious systems."
[@adams1832memoir, pp. 13--14.]

The problem Adams faced was how religious diversity should play out in
the discourse of the public sphere, but also how encounters with other
religions changed one's private, internal experience of religion.
Exploring how Americans dealt with those connected problems is the topic
of this proposed class and of my dissertation. My dissertation, "The
Varieties of Religious Conversion: The Origins of Religious Choice in
the United States" is a history of conversion---the quintessential
expression of this problem---from the end of the American revolution to
the publication of William James's *Varieties of Religious Experience*
in 1902. These are the same chronological boundaries of this course,
though the course studies the experiences of the United States's many
religions more broadly. When Adams began her book during the American
Revolution, the new nation was already religiously diverse, but thanks
to disestablishment, immigration, and religious innovation, the United
States in the nineteenth-century became extraordinarily diverse. To give
just two examples, Adams could write that American Catholics "are not
numerous," but by the end of the century they would comprise the
country's single largest religious institution; the last edition of
Adams's *Dictionary* (1817) contained no entry for Mormonism, because
Joseph Smith would not publish the *Book of Mormon* for another thirteen
years. [@adams1817dictionary, p. 358.] This course will explore the
development of religious diversity in the nineteenth century, which in
many ways has laid the foundation for the U.S. experience of religion up
to the twenty-first century.

In the capstone to this class, students will make a digital history
project. The course is designed to introduce students to the emerging
interdisciplinary field of digital humanities. If the digital humanities
is about "building," as two leading practitioners define it, then this
class's hands-on, immersive building of a project will be a valuable way
of introducing students to the field. [@ramsay2012developing] Students
will have to learn traditional skills of historical research and
argumentative writing for the project, but they will also learn skills
of collaboration, writing for public audiences, digital analysis of
evidence, mapping, project management, and advanced digital literacy
serve them well in position in government, business, and research
outside the academy. I have spoken with half a dozen professors at other
institutions about how these project-oriented digital humanities classes
can be successful, and modeled my course after theirs.

This class will complement other course offerings, since it fills a
middle level of analysis between Professor Maura Jane Farrelly's survey
of four centuries of religious history offered by American Studies, and
Professor Jonathan Sarna's courses on American Judaism in the Near
Eastern and Judaic Studies Departments. This class would be the first
digital humanities course offered at Brandeis, though a growing number
of institutions---both research universities and liberal arts
colleges---are now offering these courses. This course would be a unique
learning experience for undergraduates. I have corresponded with Library
and Technology Services to ascertain that the infrastructure to support
the digital project is available.

Enrollment figures for other classes indicate that Brandeis students
want to take courses on religion (see table below). Classes offered in
religious history or cognate disciplines usually enroll twenty or more
students.

\small
\def\medskip{\vskip -.15em}

  Course                                      Instructor         2013   2012   2011
  ------------------------------------------- ----------------- ------ ------ ------
  Religion in American Life                   Farrelly            25     22   
  American Judaism                            Sarna                      22   
  Judaism Confronts America                   Sarna                             21
  Sociology of Religion                       Cadge               62          
  Religions in Greater Boston                 Cadge & Brooten                   36
  Anthropology of Religion                    Golomski            34          
  Intro to Judaism, Christianity, and Islam   Decter              16          
  Intro to Hinduism                           Nair                       40   
  Philosophy of Religion                      Hirsch                            42


